Homework 3: Write your own shell
Homework objectives:

Learn how to use system calls
Learn how to create child processes
Learn how to catch signals
Learn basic I/O redirection

Repository
------------

Use this link to create your lab 3 repository: https://classroom.github.com/a/Lemh0Y2V

The programming part
--------------------

For this assignment you are to write a simple program that will act as a shell. The program shall:

-Display a command prompt and read in a command line from the user.  You should use "361> " as your prompt.
-Parse the command line into arguments, creating an array of character pointers, where array[0] points to the actual command and rest of the array elements point to the arguments to the command (Similar to main()’s argv[])
-Fork off a child and have the child load the requested program by passing the argument vector created in step 2 to exec() family of system calls. The parent should report the PID of the child before proceeding to the next step.  You should use the format "PID: 5", where the child's PID is 5.
-Wait for the child to complete executing and report that it ended and its exit value if available, by printing "Exit: 0" (assuming its exit value is 0).
-Repeat for first step forever till user enters the command exit
-Your shell should also support basic I/O redirection line the unix shell.
--command > filename Redirects the output of command to filename. The existing contents of filename are overwritten.
--command >> filenameRedirects the output of command to filename. The output from command is appended to contents of filename. Existing contents are not overwritten.
--command < filename Command reads its input from filename instead of from stdin.
-Your shell should handle the following signals:
--SIGINT - Generated by Ctrl-C. This signal allows a user to teminate a running program. Your shell should not exit when user presses Ctrl-C but simply report that SIGINT signal has been received by the shell by printing "SIGINT handled".
--SIGTSTP - Generated by Ctrl-Z. Your shell should not exit when user presses Ctrl-Z but simply report that SIGTSTP signal has been received by the shell by printing "SIGTSTP handled".
-The shell need not support background processes or running more than one child at a time.

your personal repository
------------------------
Note that there is no skeleton code for the homework. Going to lab sections is highly advisable, as the TA has been and will be explaining basics of getting started with a shell. Both the lab section code, as well as code found in the book or book slides, are “fair game” from which to begin your coding. You should NOT use ANY internet resources for this assignment.  You are allowed to use the book, man pages, and any resources provided by the TAs, and NOTHING ELSE.  Previous solutions, or other students’ work, are off limits and any cheating will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of university rules. 

Template
---------

When you turn in the assignment, the TA should be able to compile your program by running gcc -o hw3 hw3.c. You are free to include any files e.g. hw3.h, it just has to compile using the above command. Make sure you also include a "netid.md" file with your netid.  

Due Date
---------
This assignment is due Friday, March 2nd, at midnight. See the syllabus for the late turnin policy. This assignment is worth just as much as every other homework, and they will only get harder from here, so getting as much credit on it as possible is important (don’t turn it in late!).  


